well what that what the hell is this
look at this
do we there's a radiator mount in the
side wall that points straight into the
glut what it goes straight into the
glass uh why this is the level 20 RS and
it's an interesting case it's actually
it genuinely is very interesting because
thermaltake was that close to having a
top performer on some of the thermal
charts in our benchmarks that are coming
up later in this video and this case
ends up with its to 200 million fans and
it's very cheap 120 mil rear fan it ends
up being actually sometimes competitive
but the trouble is that Thermaltake fell
for the classic ploy of doubling up on
front mesh where there's a mesh front
and then a dust filter and the wires of
the filter happen to line up with the
holes of the mesh front in a lot of
instances but we're going to go through
the whole case because that's a
resolvable issue if you remove the
filter yourself and it can be
potentially competitive so let's get
through the review before that this
video is brought to you by Yves EJ's
r-tx 2060 kayo we previously reviewed
the r-tx 2060 kayo model for it's fused
down RTX 2080 died that uniquely
benefited blunder and some professional
applications offering better performance
than expected in some pro workloads
while offering usual strong our TX 2060
performance for gaming the r-tx 2060
kayo also includes the game deliver us
the moon for free with EVGA geforce r-tx
cards EVGA is actively restocking its
r-tx 2060 kayo with new ties which you
can find a link to the description below
the Thermaltake level 20 RS is part of a
resurgence of cases that go for the
attempt at high airflow with 200
millimeter fans sometimes this works it
out exceptionally but it all depends on
the case and if you're trying to use to
hundreds which do have a specific look
to them that is absolutely appealing to
the right audience but if you're trying
to use to hundreds you really have to
design the case around it it's not like
other fans where you can generally
reliably throw a 120 in there and expect
a certain baseline of performance to
hundreds by the nature of being larger
mean that while one you get more
whole to pull air through so that's
potentially a positive except there's a
whole hell of a lot less static pressure
and just less pressure in general for
pushing air through the case and moving
it so you run into the challenge where
as would be expected a slower spinning
large object just can't create the sort
of jet flow that you would get out of
120 or 140 fan or something like that so
this is definitely part of a bit of a
trend and it's not a bad one but there's
a right and a wrong way to execute it
there all it takes sort of in-between
where as you'll see in the thermal
charts later they end up in a
non-competitive and uncompetitive
position and some charts but actually an
extremely competitive position in others
and it just depends on which numbers
you're looking at the half asked case is
following the age 500p original case
which was a tragic failure at launch you
see a lot of two hundred mill RGB front
intake fans Coolermaster made a lot of
other aged 500 cases after that one
we've seen a bit of a recovery in
interest in 180ml case fans from
silverstone where they made the air
penetrators which are some of the best
fans ever made and so this is part of a
trend that can be a good thing the level
20 RS here does reuse tooling from some
previous cases from Thermaltake it's not
the level 20 MT though that we reviewed
in 2018 this level 20 does use mesh so
it's a bit different there let's get
into Patrick's build notes we'll talk
about some of the ups and downs of this
case and the mesh double stacking is
definitely a major item to focus on then
we'll go through the thermal performance
as we've mentioned in past reviews we're
getting a little tired of power supply
shrouds so it's a pleasant change to see
a case with a half shroud that's
removable there are only two screws that
hold it in place so it's very easy to
take out although putting it back in
requires lining up some delicate metal
tabs just right that matters here since
the space under the power supply shroud
can't be accessed from the motherboard
side as it usually can be instead users
must remove the shroud install the power
supply from the interior of the case
thread cables behind the motherboard
tray and replace the shroud if desired
this reminds us of cases that came out
around the same time the half acts did
so that be
circa 2007 to 2011 era of case design it
makes it somewhat odd that the power
supply can be inserted from the back of
the case as well it's a good feature but
it's a bit redundant here with the way
they've done it the a RGB lighting is
one of our least favorite aspects of
this case we don't like to pollute our
testbench with bloatware so we tested
with built-in RGB lighting controls for
the case the physical Hardware buttons
the built-in lighting on that level 20
RS kind of sucks
the animated patterns aren't smooth at
all at lower speeds and although the
solid colors and faster animations look
fine on the fans these slightly
off-center labels make them look
unpleasantly wobbly no matter what the
only other lighting in the case is a
weird little strip which we're calling a
WL s we're filing for a trademark on
that across the top of the front panel
the whole thing seems like an
afterthought which is reinforced by as
usual repurposing what was clearly a
reset button as a makeshift RGB control
button and the fact that the RGB
controller itself is slapped in the
middle of the path of an important cable
cut out points are however awarded for
including an RGB controller points are
also awarded for having preset patterns
as well as accepting a RGB control from
the motherboard and points are deducted
for being bad the controller uses
non-standard connections that combine
RGB and fan power into one header so
there's no way to control the fan speeds
this is something that Lian Li also did
in the past and drove us crazy then -
since the controller only takes input
for the LEDs you end up sort of stuck
with this solution unless you buy
different fans at least the rear exhaust
fan is a normal 3 pin design and it can
be connected to something else for
control instead we've long ago ceased to
test vertical GP layouts in standard mid
towers since we proved our point
ages ago the conclusion is almost
invariably that it's a bad idea with
air-cooled cards there were maybe two or
three exceptions to that and all of
those featured brackets that were fully
rotatable for all the PCIe slots where
you could seat the card sufficiently far
back from the panel if the case is deep
enough so that it could still breathe
all of that said the level 20 RS has the
best possible version of the vertical
layout it's similar to that cable mount
adapter that actually kind of works well
the entire block of expansion cards can
be rotated sideways
meaning that the card can be mounted as
close to the motherboard which is good
or the side panel which is bad as its
desired this does also mean that if one
adding card is installed vertically all
the adding cards must be installed
vertically but it's better than smashing
the GPU intake fans against the glass
panel and overheating it if you're going
water cooling this point doesn't really
matter that much Thermaltake gets credit
for one of the better vertical GPU
layout implementations and of course if
you did want to get water cooling you're
basically going for the looks at that
point you're not worrying about fans on
the card so feel free to smash it
against the glass so you can see it
better there are some major assembly
issues going on with the small metal
mesh sections of the top panel the
corners aren't fully seated into the
plastic housing which seems more an
issue of an overly elaborate design than
a lack of care removing the top panel
and examining its interior reveals that
each of the rounded corner pieces is a
separate piece that's screwed into the
main panel during assembly with tool
marks revealing just how much manual
labor it takes to get everything fitted
together properly the whole thing is
vastly over complicated in service of
nothing at least all the decorative
flanges and ribs make the panel's fairly
solid and inflexible the front of the
top panel has two big divots taken out
of it where the power buttons and USB
ports are located but this is a
decorative choice rather than a
functional one the top of the radiator
mount is needlessly obstructed by this
although the rails on the chassis extend
all the way to the front of the case
they are partially covered by the
extremely large IO housing we would much
more prefer a more conventional layout
with the IO in place of the wls as we
called it filtering in the level 20 RS
is overkill something that we've been
complaining about with their own take
cases for several years running the g21
was one of the most egregious offenders
where they'll take actually triple
matched it up the top panel is mesh and
the front panel is mesh here and all the
little nooks and crannies of the case
around the sides are also match they'll
do a fine job of filtering dust on their
own that's apparently not good enough
though for Thermaltake and they've
sandwiched a second filter layer inside
the panel's we removed this layer for
one of the thermal tests shown later in
the review but certainly it isn't
designed to be removable combining
restrictive filters and fans with
low static pressure is a bad idea and
that's what happens when you have 200
millimeter fans double mesh for
filtration can be excusable but the case
needs to be designed around it shoving
200 bill fans in which are naturally low
static pressure in PC applications means
that you're especially limited where
120s might have been acceptable the one
filter that is designed to be removable
is on the bottom of the case but it
ejects from the rear making it
inconvenient to pull out if the case is
backed up against the wall
so I'd panel attachment is good it's
simple both sides are identical and
interchangeable and there aren't any
holes drilled through the glass we wish
the thumb screws on the back we're
captive and we wish they didn't come
from the factory torqued down so hard
that we couldn't unscrew them without a
driver but that's par for the course by
now and everybody does it especially
NZXT but their recommended solution is
to yank hard to each their own the top
and front panels of the level 20 RS
require concernedly sharp Yanks to get
off as well but as a consequence they
fit tight and flush be warned we now
know from experience that we handle at
the bottom of the front panel is close
enough to ground level that grasping it
and pulling will skin some knuckles this
handle is also an unfiltered hole in the
front panel which is mostly blocked by
the 200 mil stock fans and their frames
but will cause problems with dust
ingress if smaller fans are used
radiator mounting on the top of the
chassis is extremely flexible to a fault
there are nine rows of screw holes next
to each other so that fans and radiators
can be offset various distances from the
motherboard but that only leaves 4.5
centimeters of clear contiguous space
between the rails to push the air
through the front panel suffers from the
same problem to a lesser degree much of
the rear surface of the big 200 mil
intake fans are blocked by a chassis the
case will indeed fit a 360 mil rad at
the top but it requires either removing
the front IO assembly or just leaving
that end of the radiator unsupported
mounting at the front of the case is
more straightforward but installing a
radiator will require mounting the fans
on the outside of the chassis like the
stock fans are or removing the hard
drive cage the stock 200 millimeter fans
should not be installed on a radiator
maybe if it's a 200 mil radiator like
that one that cooler
so users who install a normal-size
radiator may want to move the 200
millimeter fans to the top instead but
only one 200 mil fan can fit here again
thanks to the intricate design of the
top panel keen-eyed viewers may have
noticed that thermal take not only
claims support for three sixty
millimeter radiators at the top in front
of the case but also excuse me but also
the right of the case by which they mean
the rails that are meant for mounting
the hard drive cage there's no path to
the exterior of the case from this
location there's zero ventilation that's
not hyperbole
it's literally zero so it should go
without saying that putting a radiator
here would be monumentally stupid we can
only assume that I'll take copy/paste of
the spec sheet for a case with a side
vent and forgot to backspace that line
seriously that's actually possible and
hopefully that's what happened under no
circumstances should anybody install a
radiator there this is a large chassis
one that was originally designed to fit
five and a quarter inch drives and
there's plenty of wide flat space in
front of the motherboard we'd like to
see if they're on take tap a couple
extra screw holes and list compatibility
with EE B bort but it would require some
rearrangement of the hard drive cage
mounting holes so to understand about
why they didn't bother sort of the hard
drive cage or the hard drive rack as
Thermaltake calls it can be installed at
four different height the bottom
mounting location makes the most sense
for keeping the case tidy but
repositioning the cage may help clear
some space for installing radiators
correctly with tubes down we haven't
seen any extra harddrive racks for sale
so as far as we're aware the two bays
that come with the case are what you get
which is a bummer for anyone who wants
to use more than three hard drives the
partial power supply shroud that can't
really be used to store any cables and
the flat motherboard tray that doesn't
go out at the front for extra care
management room means that the vast
majority of cables it must be bundled up
against the back of the motherboard tray
the space behind the tray is therefore
relatively wide almost three and a half
centimeters across the entire case this
does have the unfortunate side effect of
reducing the width available for the
rear exhaust fan so the rear mount
can only support 120-millimeter fans but
in a case where static pressure is at a
premium and this isn't the worst thing
the level 20 RS comes with a
pre-installed vertical GPU bracket above
the power supply shroud which we removed
for testing generally we try to leave
cases completely stock for baseline
testing but this bracket is in the path
of airflow and serves no purpose unless
there are vertical GPUs mounted in the
case so we removed it for all tests
since that's what a real user would do
the only additional test we added on top
of the usual set was a pass with one
layer of mesh removed from the front
panel it's not difficult to get this
filter layer out and it doesn't alter
the appearance of the case but it does
require disassembling the front panel
and bending and unbending the fragile
metal tabs that aren't designed to be
reusable it's difficult to decide how
much credit to give Thermaltake for the
results achieved with this mesh removed
it's an easy mod but it's not part of
the intended functionality of the case
we'll start with our torture benchmark
and just the if there only take level 20
RS compared against itself and the other
recent level 20 product the MT well look
at comparative charts vs. competitors in
a moment the level 20 RS averaged 57
degrees Celsius DT over ambiens with the
stock layout with a drop down to 48 C
delta T average with the front panel
removed we use the test with no front
panel as an indicator of what the best
possible performance could be with no
obstructions to the front fans
whatsoever and huge temperature drops
like this aren't uncommon the real
indicator of a problem is the test we
did with the extra layer of mesh removed
which averaged 51 degrees Celsius CPU
temperature delta T over ambient that's
about a 6 degree drop just from removing
a filter that we didn't believe needed
to be there at all to begin with
bringing that fairly close to the
temperature that could have been
achieved with no front panel whatsoever
the 200 ml 600 rpm front fans can't
effectively pull air through these two
layers of mesh and again there's no way
to control the speed of these fans for a
mesh fronting case with 2 257 C delta T
Iran is just plain bad the obvious
points of comparison is cooler masters
line of fixed H 500 cases in our
comparative charge and those followed
the original H 500 P which was not only
offensively bad and thermals but also in
assembly and Q the clip of it falling
part four more of that compared to the
level 20 RS even the age 500 P original
case averaged a degree cooler than the
thermaltake case in this test at 56 EDT
the age 500 Blanc managed 50 degrees
delta T over ambient and the H 500 M
with the mesh front panel applied is one
of the best results on the chart at 46
degrees Celsius delta T of these the H
500 Blanc is the closest to the level 20
R as in price and it handily outperforms
thermal takes case the 51c result with a
single layer of mesh removes would put
the level 20 RS in competition with
cooler masters cases and solve the other
airflow focused cases on the chart but
again that's not the way this ships and
we're reluctant to say that case
performs well based on a mod again like
we noticed for the thermal take to each
one you want GPU temperature over
ambient during the same torture test was
52 degrees Celsius average which was
unchanged by either removing the single
layer of mesh or the entire front panel
in the only RS charged a combination of
factors led to this like the fact that
the GPU increases clocks when it has
thermal headroom changing air patterns
and pressure within the case when the
front panel is removed and the fact that
the bottom intake fan may have a little
more air available to it thanks to the
hole at the bottom of the front panel in
any case the result was a consistent 52
C DT average across the board
comparatively the level 20 RS place is
much better versus other cases with GB
temperatures than it does with average
CPU temperatures 52 C GPU DT is still a
couple degrees warmer than the age 508
500 M is 49 CDT but the original H 500 P
averaged 55 degrees Celsius here so at
least thermal takes model outperforms a
case that we explicitly criticized for
dragging down cooler masters high
airflow line as it was called it's
appropriately near other mesh fronted
cases like the be quiet 500 DX and a
fan's XP 400 a although the latter still
beats it by a couple degrees with one
last layer of mash in the front panel
the level 20 RS would be a decently cold
case although even then we'd miss the
ability to control the speed of the case
fans our fire strike test is next
showing what a gaming workload looks
like yet again the average GPU
temperature in this test was 52 C if
nothing else the level 20 RS is
extremely consistent here the firestrike
GP deltas are usually pretty close to
the torture task GP Delta's so this 52
see average is comparatively better than
it's CPU performance here as well
cooler masters aged 500 average 49 CDT
while the H 500 M with a mesh front
average 52 see these results confirm
what we found in the torture test
they're all take has done fare too well
on GPU cooling and the shortened well
ventilated PSU shroud and the
ventilation cut into the bottom of the
case means that the bottom of the case
isn't a sealed off chamber so that's
what's helping it here blender provides
an example of a real-world heavy
workload that's gentler than prime95
which we use for the torture test CPU
temperature during the CPU only render
was 40 degrees Celsius over ambient
putting the level 20 RS
again among the warmest cases in the
chart but not at a level where it's
completely out of control for context
the BitFenix Enzo one of the most poorly
ventilated cases we've ever reviewed
averaged only a couple degrees warmer at
42 degrees Celsius those two degrees
have changed it's more significant in
this case than in the torture test due
to the relatively narrow range of
results but in spite of being a bit
cooler than that the level 20 RS is
still absolutely at the warm end of the
chart the cooler master H 500 did
particularly well in this tasked with an
average CPU DT of 36 among the best
results we've recorded G via thermals
and blender look actually very strong
for the level 20 RS positioning it at 24
degrees DT over ambient or in the top
third of results on this truncated chart
that's next to some other high
performers on the chart when the case
isn't under as much CPU thermal strain
it's much more competitive our next
chart is for noise there are three fans
in the level 20 RS two of them are 200
mil fans that are externally locked this
600 rpm and one of them is at 120 mil
over your exhaust fan that maxes out at
1,000 rpm hours reported approximately
1060 we plugged the rear exhaust fan
into the motherboard for manual control
as we always do but the case ships with
the fan plugs into the same hub as the
front fans where it too will be locked
to 100% all the time for the first time
in a long time we're in a position where
the noise and Hubble's we've logged get
100% fan speeds for the case fans that
is or the actual noise levels that
should be expected from the case at all
time stock we measured it to be 36 point
1 dB
which is so close to the 36 DB a noise
normalized threshold for our testing
that we can treat the stock torture
results as comparable on the noise
normalize the chart the original 57
degrees Celsius CPU results from the
torture test acts up much better against
the noise normalized cases although that
still only pushes it to about the middle
of the chart the Fraxel measure by C
scored similarly and the stock
configured mesh Phi C isn't even
thermally impressive without those extra
fans removing a layer of mash from the
level 20 RS wouldn't have a major impact
on noise levels and the 51 degree
average from that test would be one of
the best noise normalized results
recorded thus far Thermaltake was that
close to having a chart-topping
performer the GBO temperature from this
same chart is exceptional compared
against the rest of the case is on it
among the cases using entirely stock
layouts we use our own fans for that
we'll have an excel mind you the level
20 RS is tied with the P 400 a for
second-best GPU temperature on the chart
first place still goes to the ancient
DIY pcs on 200 which has an old-school
side intake fan aimed directly at the
GPU our next chart is for standardized
fan testing which is something that our
viewers always ask for please note that
there are several flaws to this approach
to testing and we've resolved a lot of
them but there are some that are
inherent to it that can't be removed and
that's why we resisted adding it for so
long that said it can be useful in
building the full picture and to learn
why it's not as useful as people would
like it to be check our description for
links to the methodology post on the
standardized fantastic for the
standardized fan test we replaced the
two 200 mil front intakes with our usual
NOx about 140 fans and the rear exhaust
fan with the Knoxville 120 we mounted
the front intake fans on the outside of
the chassis since that's the way
Thermaltake mounts their stock to
hundreds no mesh or filters are removed
for this test CPU temperature average 53
see another unimpressive result for a
case with an airflow focused front panel
other mesh fronts the case is like the
pure bass 500 DX and B 400 a a verge 46
C DT and 44 CDT respectively with the
level 20 are a slanting closer to the
LAN Li LAN co2 and the ROG Strix Helios
this confirms that the relatively slow
front fans aren't the only problem
even with smaller higher rpm fans it's
the dual match layers of the front panel
that proved too restrictive to breathe
GPU temperature averaged 51 C in this
test the only deviation we saw from the
52 C results in the other tests although
even this is within margin of error of
the original torture test it's tied with
the pure base 500 DX and the fans XP 400
a - very good cases that regularly
outperform it and CPU thermals which is
a good place to be by designing a case
like this there on take is obviously
this is blocking all of my light I've
just realized they don't like is
obviously inviting comparisons to cooler
masters cases cooler master isn't the
only company that's making cases with
200 millimeter fans but they're the one
that comes to the forefront of anyone's
mind when you start looking at these
because they've been putting out aged
500 whatever cases for a couple of years
now and at least three years at this
point
not counting the original series of like
half acts style cases so availability
and prices are constantly fluctuating
there's usually a member of the H 500
family though available around the price
of this was about 150 bucks at least
right now so the level 20 RS ends up
most directly competing with the
Coolermaster H 500 P mesh not to be
confused with the original H 500 P the
aged 500 PS is actually good in a lot of
ways they fixed the issue where all the
panels fell apart they fixed the issues
with thermals and that's one that we did
a big review on a couple years ago if
you're interested in more and that's 160
right now with $20 rebate so it's a
direct competitor this case today other
ones are also around the area the H 500
Blanc is a bit cheaper it's also 200 mil
front fans and two of them and it's got
a mesh or an acrylic option if you like
to suffocate your system so Thermaltake
has direct competition in the 200 market
they also have competition from the
likes of fan tax with the P 400 a which
is a lot cheaper for the digital version
with all the fans and also a really
strong performer we gave it best overall
for 2019 the P 400 a has an older-style
interior it's really not modern it feels
old when you work with it but the case
itself is good this also has an older
style interior so
that's another direct competitor
basically we'd recommend looking at as
an alternative to this if you are
interested in this but maybe don't want
this one or you want to know your
options eight 500 P mesh P 400 a and
probably age 500 blank would be where to
start with it maybe you might be
interested in the Silverstone for r1
also but this one is just it's got good
radiator support and sometimes a little
too good like the side panel but that's
something that they don't take tends to
focus on it's also got a lot of weird
oversights like the top where you have
to disassemble the entire front the i/o
which is in a lot of ways only done the
way it is to be different from the
previous case just to get all the screws
in at the front of the 360 on the top
you have to worry about clearance with
vrm heat sinks in instances of wider
radiators you've got a significant
portion of the top holes blocked by all
the different support for raiders so
it's its support to a fault but water
cooling support is typically what
they'll take tries to do so anyway
that's level 20 RS it is certainly not
an easy recommendation it's not just a
recommendation at all from us it can be
really good but it's not really their
stock and definitely take out the extra
mesh layer if you feel like it because
it blocks a lot of the air for the cpu
intake especially for a tower cooler
once you go water you brute force a lot
of it doesn't matter as much but it
still matters so that's it for this one
not not very competitive overall but
extremely competitive and GPU thermals
over all that you gotta look at the
whole picture and it needs a little bit
of help so thanks for watching subscribe
for more as always go to store documents
access net to helps out directly or
patreon.com slash gamers Nexus we'll see
you all next time
[Music]